Regression testing docs (#503)
clearmatics/autonity: docs/performance/metrics.md

# Performance regression testing

> Once per releace we'd like to measure performance metrics on different levels.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once per release we'd like to measure performance metrics on different levels.
```

There are a couple more typos, could you just run this doc through a spellchecker to catch them.

## Metrics to control

> ### Network level

Reviewer: I think the term "Network level" might be misleading here, or I think more description is needed about how the metrics are calculated.

I would consider the consensus_block_interval at the network level to be the time taken for the network to move from block n to block n+1.

It's not clear how that would be calculated though.

It could be time from the first node to move to block n to the last node to move to block n+1. So the entire period where at least one node is working on block n.

Or it could be the average of all the node level consensus_block_interval values.

Or "Network level" doesn't really mean network level, and you are just capturing metrics at the node level.

Reviewer 2: 'Network' as it used in distributed systems. Distributed network.

Term "consensus" would be not vert exact and strict so "network" was used.

Reviewer: I think maybe the problem is the use of the term level.

In the case of consensus_block_interval what constitutes a datapoint in the histogram?
Is it:
1. The block interval seen by a single node
1. The block interval seen by the network as a whole

Reviewer: @JekaMas @screwyprof bump

| p2p_peer_receive_bytes_per_block       | Gauge   | percentiles 50, 75 and 90, max | number of bytes per channel received from a peer |
| p2p_peer_send_bytes_per_block          | Gauge   | percentiles 50, 75 and 90, max | number of bytes per channel ber block sent to a peer |
| mempool_size                           | Gauge     | percentiles 50, 75 and 90, max | Number of uncommitted transactions |
| mempool_failed_txs                     | counter   | count | number of failed transactions |

## Report format
In ideal it should be the same as used in goperf to be able to use golang tooling like benchcmp https://godoc.org/golang.org/x/tools/cmd/benchcmp , that compares different statistics in a correct way (t-test, f-test). Or we should write our own with correct comparacing.

## Test cases
* Python tests
* Melicious tests:
    * 1/3 validators offline
    * melicious validators try to send multiple votes for different or the same blocks: 1 validator, 5%, 10%, 1/3 of validators count
    * transaction spam attack: 10, 100, 1000 times traffic comparing to normal
    * slow nodes: 10, 100, 1000 less network bandwidth than normal nodes

> ## Resources

Reviewer: Could you elaborate, its not clear to me what exactly is meant by using go-ethereum and tendermint metrics as a resource? Are there pages for each of those metrics that you could link to?

Reviewer 2: We just opened tendermint and go-ethereum source codes and started finding out all suitable metrics.
So it's just https://github.com/tendermint/tendermint and https://github.com/ethereum/go-ethereum

Reviewer: It's not clear how you decided on what metrics to use from those 2 projects, because what is meant by "Basic" is not defined.

If someone else were to get the "Basic" metrics from these 2 projects they might end up with a completely different set of metrics.

I'll add a suggestion.

> Basic go-ethereum and tendermint metrics was used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We used the go-ethereum and tendermint projects as a source of inspiration for suitable metrics.
```
